The Depression Cure - One Pager

At the end of each week complete the depression scale.
Protocols are cumulative and should be continued alongside new weekly
protocols.  

Week 1
	Supplements
		* Omega-3 1000mg EPA 500mg DHA per day
		* Vitamin D: 50mcg vitamin D3 per day
	Rumination 
		Cultivate rumination awareness

Week 2 
	Supplements - Continue from week 1
	Rumination 
		Start replacing rumination with engaging activities. Schedule one
		activity per day.  
	Exercise
		* Get HR monitor (or learn to reliably check pulse)
		* Choose exercise and put in place equipment, membership, etc
		* Consider hiring a personal trainer for first 6 weeks

Week 3
	Rumination
		Continue working to improve noticing rumination.  Continue
		experimenting with different activities to interrupt it.  Schedule one
		activity per day.  
	Exercise
		* Schedule 3 hour-long blocks of time for exercise. 
		* Aim for 30min. in target aerobic range
	Light
		If using a light box order it this week.

Week 4
	Exercise
		Continue as before.  If you weren't successful in week three consider
		hiring a personal trainer or finding a workout partner.
	Light
		Begin scheduling 30 min. of bright light exposure each morning. (Unless
		you wake-up too early then schedule for -5hr. from bedtime).  Try to
		find other times during the day to get natural light exposure.  

Week 5
	Exercise
		Continue as before.  If not satisfied with chosen exercise experiment
		with other forms.
	Social Support
		Schedule 3 social activities this week and put on calendar. Best to
		spend time with friends or loved ones in person.  Phone calls and
		supportive online forums are alternatives.

Week 6
	Social Support
		Schedule at least four social activities and put on calendar.
		* Evaluate for toxic relationships:
			- Work to improve if possible
			- Limit or eliminate contact with irredeemably toxic individuals
	Sleep
		* Adopt goal of getting adequate sleep each night: 7-9hr
		* Start first 2 healthy sleep habits:
			1. Use bed only for sleep (or sex)
			2. Wake up at the same time every morning

Week 7
	Evaluation
		Most people will see some benefit by this point.  Look at weekly
		depression scores.  If less than 25% improvement review ch. 11 for
		troubleshooting and contact therapist if not done already.  
	Supplements
		If less than 50% improvement increase dosage to 2000mg EPA/1000mg DHA
	Exercise
		If less than 50% improvement increase to 5 sessions per week
	Light
		If depression scale score below 10 decrease light exposure to 15min.
	Social Support
		Schedule 5 social activites
		* Continue to reduce time spent with toxic individuals.
	Sleep
		* Continue as before
		* Work to incorporate remaining habits of healthy sleep from Ch. 9
	
Week 8
	Light 
		If depression scale score is below 10 decrease exposure to 15 min per
		day.
	Social Support
		Schedule at least one activity each day
		Target one form of community involvement for this week
		Eliminate contact with irredeemably toxic individuals.

Weeks 9 - 12
	Light
		When depression scale score drops below 10 decrease bright light to
		fifteen minutes each day.  Try to get natural light exposure throughout
		the day.  
	Social Support
		Continue as before, and increase community involvement to at least two
		forms of activity each week.
	Evaluation
		Expect to see at least 50% decrease in severity from pretreatment with
		an overall trajectory pointing towards complete recovery.  If you don't
		see this improvement use Ch. 11 and licensed therapist.  


